now in the twelfth month that is the
month of ADA on the thirteenth day the
time came for the king's command and his
decree to be executed on the day that
the enemies of the Jews had hoped to
overpower them the opposite occurred in
that the Jews themselves overpowered
those who hated them the Jews gathered
together in their cities throughout all
the provinces of King Ahasuerus to lay
hands on those who sought their harm and
no one could withstand
because fear of them fell upon all
people and all officials of the
provinces
thus a traps the governors and all those
doing the King's work helped the Jews
because the fear of Mordecai fell upon
them for Mordecai was great in the
king's palace and his fame spread
throughout all the provinces for this
man Mordecai became increasingly
prominent thus the Jews defeated all
their enemies with a stroke of the sword
with slaughter and destruction and did
what they pleased with those who hated
them and in Shushan The Citadel the Jews
killed and destroyed five hundred men
also in passion death ax dolphin as
petha Bharatha Adalia arid atha par
master or Isaiah
today I and verges over the 10 sons of
him the son of Hamad atha the enemy of
the Jews they killed but they did not
lay a hand on the plunder on that day
the number of those who were killed in
Shushan the citadel was brought to the
king and the King said to Queen Esther
the Jews have killed and destroyed five
hundred men in Shushan the citadel and
the ten sons of Haman what have they
done in the rest of the king's provinces
now what is your petition it shall be
granted you or what is your further
request it shall be done
if it pleases the king let it be granted
to the Jews who are in Shushan to do
again tomorrow according to today's
decree and let Haman's 10 sons be hanged
on the gallows so the king commanded
this to be done the decree was issued in
Shushan and they hanged
Heyman's 10 sons and the Jews who were
in Shushan gathered together again on
the fourteenth day of the month of ADA
and killed three hundred men at Shushan
but they did not lay a hand on the
plunder the remainder of the Jews in the
king's provinces glad that together and
protected their lives had rest from
their enemies and killed seventy five
thousand of their enemies but they did
not lay a hand on the plunder this was
on the 13th day of the month of ADA and
on the fourteenth of the month they
rested and made it a day of feasting and
gladness
but the Jews who are in Shushan
assembled together on the 13th day as
well as on the 14th and on the 15th of a
month
they rested and made it a day of
feasting and gladness therefore the Jews
of the villages who dwelt in the
unwalled towns celebrated the 14th day
of the month of ADA with gladness and
feasting as a holiday and for sending
presents to one another and Mordecai
wrote these things and sent letters to
all the Jews near and far who were in
all the provinces of King Ahasuerus
to establish among them that they should
celebrate yearly the fourteenth and
fifteenth days of the month of ADA as
the days on which the Jews had rest from
their enemies as the month which was
turned from sorrow to joy for them and
from morning to a holiday that they
should make them days of feasting and
joy of sending presents to one another
and gifts to the poor so the Jews
accepted the custom which they had begun
as Mordecai had written to them because
Haman the son of Hamor dasa the eager
guide the enemy of all the Jews had
plotted against the Jews to annihilate
them and had cast per that is the lot to
consume and destroy them but when Esther
came before the king he commanded by
letter that this wicked plot which Haman
had devised against the Jews should
return on his own head and that he and
his son should be hanged on the gallows
so they called these days Purim after
the name /
therefore because of all the words of
this letter what they had seen
concerning this matter and what had
happened to them the Jews established
and imposed it upon themselves on their
descendants and all who would join them
that without fail they should celebrate
these two days every year according to
the written instructions and according
to the prescribed time that these days
should be remembered and kept throughout
every generation every family every
province and every city that these days
of Purim should not fail to be observed
among the Jews and that the memory of
them should not perish among their
descendants when Queen Esther the
daughter of Abba hail with Mordecai the
Jew wrote with full authority to confirm
this second letter about Purim and
Mordecai sent letters to all the Jews to
the 127 provinces of the kingdom of
Ahasuerus with words of peace and truth
to confirm these days of Purim at their
appointed time as Mordecai the Jew and
Queen Esther had prescribed for them and
as they had decreed for themselves and
their descendants concerning matters of
their fasting and lamenting so the
decree of Esther confirmed these matters
of Purim and it was written in the book
[Music]
you